Jakub's certification post (#3476)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2023-12-15-liberty-certification.adoc

You can find the certification on the link:https://www.ibm.com/training/certification/C9004800[IBM Training portal].

image::img/blog/liberty-certification.png[Screenshot of certification page,width=70%,align="center"]

== Prepare for the certification exam

You can prepare for the certification exam by using the free resources on the link:/[Open Liberty website], including the link:/guides/[cloud-native developer guides] and the link:/docs/[Liberty docs]. Both the guides and docs are relevant whether you are working with link:/start/[Open Liberty] or with link:https://www.ibm.com/products/websphere-hybrid-edition/liberty[IBM WebSphere Liberty] (which is built from the Open Liberty project).

=== Cloud-native Java developer guides

> The 60 link:/guides/[cloud-native developer guides] help you to get hands-on with the technologies and tools that are available to use with Open Liberty. The guides are a great way for you to refresh your knowledge about a technology or to discover new ones. They range in complexity, from link:/guides/getting-started.html[Getting started with Open Liberty] and link:/guides/rest-intro.html[Creating a RESTful web service] to topics such as link:/guides/microprofile-metrics.html[Providing metrics from a microservice], and link:/guides/social-media-login.html[Authenticating users through social media providers].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 60 link:/guides/[cloud-native developer guides] give you hands-on experience with the technologies and tools that you can use with Open Liberty. The guides are a great way for you to refresh your knowledge about a technology or to discover new ones. They range in complexity, from link:/guides/getting-started.html[Getting started with Open Liberty] and link:/guides/rest-intro.html[Creating a RESTful web service] to topics such as link:/guides/microprofile-metrics.html[Providing metrics from a microservice], and link:/guides/social-media-login.html[Authenticating users through social media providers].
```

You can complete a guide in as little as 15 minutes. Additionally, most of the guides are also available for you to "Run in cloud" in a browser, so you don't need to set up any pre-requisites on your local machine. This provides a really easy and efficient way for you to practise using Liberty.

image::img/blog/guides.png[Screenshot of Open Liberty guides,width=70%,align="center"]

As well as the guides, there is a longer link:/guides/liberty-deep-dive.html[Liberty Deep Dive] available. The Liberty Deep Dive combines many of the technologies covered in the shorter guides into a longer tutorial so that you can develop a fully-functional cloud-native Java application with Open Liberty using Jakarta EE and MicroProfile APIs.

image::img/blog/liberty-deep-dive.png[Screenshot of Open Liberty Deep Dive,width=70%,align="center"]

=== Liberty documentation

On the link:/[Open Liberty website] you can also find the link:/docs/[Liberty docs] which describe how to use the features available with Open Liberty, including the MicroProfile and Jakarta EE specifications.

image::img/blog/docs.png[Screenshot of Open Liberty docs,width=70%,align="center"]

== Find out more

> By using the above resources, and your own knowledge and experience of writing cloud-native Java applications, you're ready to try the Liberty certification exam - good luck! Read more about the certification on the link:https://www.ibm.com/training/certification/C9004800[IBM Training portal].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using these resources, and your own knowledge and experience of writing cloud-native Java applications, you're ready to try the Liberty certification exam - good luck! Read more about the certification on the link:https://www.ibm.com/training/certification/C9004800[IBM Training portal].
```
